Hello friends, welcome back to my youtube channel, Basic of ServiceNow Learning. So in this video is the first video 
of ServiceNow training session or I can say ServiceNow training series. A series where we will cover each and every topic mentioned in this syllabus. So I will be covering all these topics 
one by one in videos. So in today's video I am going to cover this first and second, the introduction to ServiceNow, the configuring users and groups and administration. So the first part is basically a theoretical and the second part is basically a implementation in ServiceNow instance that how to create users, how to create groups, how to create roles, what is users, what are groups, what are roles in ServiceNow. Okay so let's see what we are going to cover in this video. In this video I will give you a brief of ServiceNow, basically ServiceNow introduction. 
We will talk about users, we will talk about roles, we will talk about groups and we will also implement a use case. The use case is like how to create a user, how to create a custom roles, how to create a groups in ServiceNow, how to assign roles to user directly, how to assign roles to group, how to add a user to group. Okay if we adding a role right so we have to remove the role as well. Right so how to remove role from the users and 
how to remove roles from the groups. Okay so these are all use 
courses we are going to cover in today's video. Okay so let's start with for ServiceNow introduction. So that is basically a theoretical part. So ServiceNow is basically a product of ServiceNow Inc which is an American cloud-based IT management company. It was founded in 2004 by Fred Ludi and its headquarters is in Santa Clara California. ServiceNow is a cloud-based IT management tool so which is used to automate business processes and provides best service to customers and encourages best practices in managing all services as a business. ServiceNow was first introduced as ITSM tool used for various IT activities such as asset management, incident management, change management, problem management, knowledge management, CMDB etc. Okay so basically these incident management, change management, asset management, problem management, these are basically ITSM applications. These are the very basic applications or default applications which is given by ServiceNow and most of the companies are working on incident management, change management I believe. Okay so these are the very basic modules incident management and change 
management. But now ServiceNow becomes huge and serves a lot of other applications as well such as ITOM applications and ITBM 
applications. Okay so as we move forward with other sections of this training sessions then we will also cover this ITOM applications and ITBM applications. What all ITOM applications ServiceNow have, what all ITBM applications ServiceNow have. We will also talk about this ITSM applications in details that what exactly the incident management process is, what exactly the change management process is, problem management process and all. Okay so we will cover all these things in later videos as well. 
Okay so this is basically an introduction session of ServiceNow. So we are only covering these 30 sections only. ServiceNow platform supports several database technologies such as MySQL, Oracle etc. ServiceNow platform is written in Java, apps are written in JavaScript. Okay so if you are learning a ServiceNow you should have a basic knowledge of JavaScript, you must have a basic knowledge of AngularJS, you must have a basic knowledge of HTML and CSS at least. Okay if you want to proceed your career in ServiceNow development. Okay but if you are proceeding your career in ServiceNow administration or if you are proceeding your career in ServiceNow functional consultant, okay so doesn't mean that you know JavaScript or not. Okay so let's see. So this is basically a very brief introduction of ServiceNow because most of the time interviewer ask like what is ServiceNow? So at least you should be aware of that what is ServiceNow? What exactly is the tool? This tool is basically for ITSM, ITBM and ITOM applications. It's a cloud-based IT management tool. Okay so here now let's see what is users? Okay so you know that each and every application either it is a software, it is a web application or any application so it is nothing without users. Okay 
in ServiceNow user is basically those individuals who can access ServiceNow instance. Okay and to create users in ServiceNow user admin or ITIL role is required. Okay so let's navigate to ServiceNow application so that we can understand it how we can create users and from where we can create a users. Okay so friends this is my ServiceNow personal developer instance. Okay if you are not aware of like what is a personal development instance so I will tell you that this is basically an instance which is provided by ServiceNow. This is free of cost. You can create 
your access and you can create your instance directly. So I have already posted a video you can check it in my playlist. So where you can find it how to create your personal developer instance. Okay so you can create your personal developer instance. Once you create that then you have an admin access of that instance. See okay and then you can perform the activities which I am going to perform. Okay and you can also explore the things of ServiceNow instance. So we are talking about users so before we start with users I'll give you a little brief on this application first. See whatever we are looking here in the left hand side navigation. See these are the applications which are provided by ServiceNow by default is this personal development instance. Okay there are lots of application. See okay see I was talking about change earlier right. Change, problem, incident. See 
you have access here. You can access those applications. You can do hands-on if you want to become an incident manager or you 
want to become a problem manager or change manager. Okay you can do hands-on over here. Okay we have different applications here even though we have a development applications also here. Okay so if you want to do development in ServiceNow you need admin access from where you can access that applications like system definition. See from here we can do development activities. Okay there are lots of other applications as well. So these are 
the applications which are provided by ServiceNow on the left hand navigation. Each and every applications have different different modules. Okay modules means like in incident we have module called create new. This basically used to create a incident. Assign to means a different list view and this open is basically a list view. So we have different different modules available in each and every applications. Each and every module is for 
performing different activities. Okay same as here we have see 
profile impersonate user elevate role. Okay here we have settings which is tell us that what update set we are using in development sections what applications we are using right like notifications if you want to create some personal notifications or remove some notifications then you can use it from here forms, list, themes, journals. Okay this is basically a search we can say global search you can search anything from here. Okay whatever data is available in ServiceNow will be displayed to you. Okay so okay so this is basically ServiceNow application so when we move forward with different different tutorials or different 
different training sessions then you will be come to know more 
about each and everything. Okay so now let's move to user part 
first. So to create a user or to find out from where to create 
a user type user in this filter navigator once you type user see it gives us a filter result. So scroll down under user administration see we have a modules called users groups and roles. Okay so we are going to cover these users groups and roles today in this video. Okay so what I am going to do I am going to open this user in a new tab. See we have 590 users in this system 
right now and we are going to create more users today. So from 
here we can create a new user this icon is basically see this gear icon is basically for personalizing the list that what all 
columns you want to display like this is the selected columns if you want to add more columns we can add from here like I am saying first name okay so see this person come over here I am just setting it position where I want to display it I say okay okay once I personalize the list see the first name is displaying over here so it means this particular gear icon is used to customize this okay what you want to see what you want to remove from here okay and this is basically filtration that what all records you can create your own query over here let's say I am saying that active is true means those user are active okay active is true display to me okay so it will display me all the users those who are active see so it will filter the results so this is basically used for filtration this is basically used for personalization okay so these two I this two functionality you will get for each and every list view in service now okay so now let's come back to users okay so I'm going to get a new user click on this new button so once you click on new button see we 
have a form available so we have to fill this form so as I told you that earlier that to create a user a person need a ITIL role or a user underscore admin role or admin role right to create a user so user ID is basically a login ID so I am saying I am giving a demo user okay the first name is demo okay the name you can give any name okay title if you want to give this is not mandatory so I'm not giving it see this is mandatory and this 
is not mandatory department I'm not giving I'm saying password 
one two three okay password needs reset if I checked it it means when the person log in the system this user first time log in the system then he need to reset the password this logged out 
basically if I checked it it means user is active in the system but he cannot he cannot do any login if I click on this okay this basically happens like if a person enters a password more than three times along password then the system get locked out means he had to reset the password and then he can log into the 
system okay active is basically means he is in the organization he is active user if I unchecked it it means that he is not active so he is no more in the organization okay so basically when the person gave a interview for system administration then interviewer ask them what is the difference between a locked out 
and an active or inactive right so person has to explain that locked out user is basically the user who is active in the system but anyhow he cannot log into the system okay and inactive means that person is no more in the organization okay here we have web service access only if we are doing some integration or something and we don't want to give a interface access only web 
service access then we can use these check boxes okay email ID 
of a user I am saying like demo user at the rate manager if you want to give a manager of a person then you can give a name language okay calendar integration time zone okay that you can select accordingly business I've given the business phone mobile 
phone okay now I'm just saving it see once I click on save see 
data get saved and new more related list and related links get 
introduced okay view subscription we set a password see roles groups delegate skills subscription manage subscription so here 
is rules so if we want to give a role to a particular person then we can give a role from here we can click on edit button okay and we can see what role we want to give to a user we can select a role from here let's say this and then move this role by 
using this and then we can give a role to a user when we save this then this role is assigned to that user so currently I'm not giving a role because first we have our descending of role and then we can work on this giving a role and all okay so currently I'm only creating a user see it is not assigned to any group so that's why the group is not mentioned over here okay so in this way we can create a user okay so see I have not given any role to a user even though I have not assigned this user to any group so let's log in with this user let's see what kind of interface he can he is he can see so I copy this user ID and I am logging to this instance through this user okay so here this 
the password was one two three I'm just clicking on login see this person now have access of our service now instance okay see but the application which is available for him is only self-service password is set connect live feed self-service basically 
kind of like a employee self-service through which he can get a request okay through which he can work on knowledge or he can 
create a quotient or something and there are some other like incident to create an incident okay so he can create the tickets 
like request incident knowledge for himself only okay he cannot work for others through this access okay so here the person does not have any role so he is a ESS user only okay without any 
role now this is a user now let's talk about rules so same as in user administration see we have rules or you can tab rule over here okay the same menu you will get so let's open this role 
in a new tab okay see we have different rules available over here so role is basically to specify that what different users and user group can see and do in service now instance okay so here from here we can get a new role so in service now there are different types of role such as like a base system rules special administrator rules custom rules and read-only rules so base system rules is a role which is by default provided by a service now okay and the custom rules are the rules which we are going to create now okay and some system administrator role are basically a base system role but it is kind of an admin role like a business underscore rule underscore admin like a client underscore script underscore admin these are basically a system administrator role so this provide access to a user to work on a client scripts to work on a business rules and the read-only role 
like SNC underscore read underscore only which is provided to a user if we want that he can only read the things okay so these are basically a four categorizations of rules okay base system role special administrator role custom role and read-only role okay so whatever role we will create from here that is basically a custom role okay so to create a role click on new once you click on here so you can give a role name let's say I'm saying you underscore demo role the best way is to you underscore so 
that you can identify that what is the custom or what is the base role so the best practice is that whenever you are giving a 
role give is you underscore in case if you are working in some 
different company then they must be having some specific format to define that what is the custom role okay I am saying now unspecified okay application global application is basically that what all access what all application must be having this role 
okay this is elevated privilege rule so elevated privilege privilege role is basically a role which is given to a person for a for a particular time like half an hour for an hour okay so if I check this checkbox it means it's an elevated privilege role which admin can give to any person if you want that a person will perform a particular task for a specified time okay such as security underscore admin is basically a elevated privilege rule which is given to a security admin for like an hour or I believe that for 45 minutes or 30 minutes so that he can perform his task after that that role will automatically removed okay so I'm not creating elevated privilege rule okay I'm saying description I am clicking on some save just a second see once I saved it see a little list is appeared in front of us which is contain roles applications with role tables custom application users groups send so once we assign this role to any user then that user name will get in this bit over here once we assign this role to any group then this role will display over here and and 
if you want that in roles contains more roles then we can add more roles in this role okay let's say we have created a role a 
and then we are we wanted role BCD will be come in this a role 
then we will create those role from over here by new and edit button and when we give this role to a particular person that automatically that role will also get assigned to that particular person okay means this role will become a parent and the other role will become a child which automatically I sent once we assign this role to a user application with the role when we create a ACL or when we create an application that we decided what 
kind of a role people must have those who can access that application then that will be useful and then that application will 
be displayed over here okay so later on in other upcoming videos we will be covering these things when we are creating a ACLs 
when we creating applications okay then we then I will give you a demo that how that particular things will be getting displayed over here okay so for now we will only talk about users and 
groups okay once I assign this role to user then user name will get displayed over here once I assign this role to group and group name will display over here okay so this is role this is user so through this we have we come to know that how to create 
a user how to create a role now let's talk about groups so type groups see under system administration same we have a groups I'm opening this group in a new tab so see here is the list of groups we already have 30 to 34 groups in a system okay so if I 
talk about groups so group is basically a set of users who share the common purpose let's say service desk group okay the for 
example if we are creating an incident ticket then the incident tickets will automatically assigned to a service desk group or some task management group which are working on change management or change management group problem management groups okay then change management group is working on a change tickets problem management group is working on a problem tickets service desk is basically working on incident tickets okay so to create a group click on new button so once we click on a new button we 
have this form we have to fill values in it okay so name of a group I am saying demo I am a demo group and I'm saying manager 
manager of a group I am saying he is the person who is taking care of this particular group he is a manager of this group in case if there is some amount which has to be paid to a group for an hourly rate or something you can give the values over here 
okay group email ID in case if you have let's say demo group and this parent of any group in case you do have and you can give a parent from here as well so I'm not giving right now that's 
with description so here once I save see we also have a rated list over here like rules if this group if we are assigning any 
rule to this group then we have a role over here if you are assigning any member to this group then we have a member over here okay we are creating any group under this group then we can get a group from here as well and we want to mention some skills 
for this group we can also mention those skills from here okay 
so now we have created user we have created role we have created group even though we have logged in through the user who does not have any role now so now as well as the use case we have created the user we have created the custom role we have created the group now we have to assign the role to the user directly 
okay so as I told you that this is a user if I want to assign a role to this user directly then what I will do I will create in this role see I click on edit so I'm assigning him a role which name is ITIL okay so ITIL is a very basic role which is assigned to a user if you want that the person can work on incident person can work on a change ticket person can work on other modules as well so ITIL role is best for that because ITIL is basically out-of-box technician role I can say which is by default provided by ServiceNow it's basically a base system role ITIL 
so I am selecting ITIL over here so I am giving ITIL role to this user see and I'm clicking on save once I click save see these roles are assigned to this user see so here this ITIL is displayed as false inherited and other roles are true means this ITIL role contain all these roles okay these are all roles are inherited by ITIL so once we assign this ITIL role to us these roles are automatically assigned to user okay so this user which 
we have logged in here he is having a ITIL role let's see earlier he is having access of only this four let's see how after assigning a ITIL role what all access this user must have okay so I am logging it out and logging it again the name is demo user and the password is 123 I click on login see so now page loads and see now he is having access of more applications now he is having access of like this incident management he is having access of problem management he is having access of change management okay so in this way role works so that basically depends on role that what all access we want to give to a user what all 
tasks we want a user can perform so we can decide it by giving 
roles okay so in this way we can give a role to a user individual user okay but basically giving a role to a user directly is 
not a good practice a good practice is basically that assign a 
role to a group and then a land that user to that group okay we will also do this in this video so okay so now here see if I refresh this page role page and if I refresh this group page see no impact in this related list everything is blank okay because I am NOT given this role to anyone I have not assigned this group to anyone okay so what I am going to do is now that I am assigning this role to this group so it will give us a understanding that how to assign a role to a group okay so let's see how to assign a role to a group so open the group click on edit you can directly assign a role from here see we have to assign you underscore demo so I am giving this this role to this group click on save see once I click on save see under related list we have a role you underscore demo role which is given to this group let's refresh this role page see now here in related list you can see that this role is assigned to which group see here demo group okay so this way we can assign a role to a group now 
if we align a user to this group and what will happen see this 
is demo first user which I have created earlier so what I am going to do I am adding this user to this group so to adding a user navigate to group members click on edit you can select a user from here let's say demo user and I click on save see when I 
click on save see group member first demo the user name is displayed under group member role is getting displayed over here now let's see I am refreshing this role then it will give us a user name as well see once I refresh this see user name also populated over here because we have given this role to a particular user through the group getting my point so now user is also getting displayed group is also getting displayed now this user must also having this role I am refreshing this user where is the role see this here it's get added okay so in this way the best practice is that that whenever we have to assign a role to a 
user what we will do we will add a user to that group the group which is having that role okay so this group is having this role we added this user to this group automatically the role is assigned to a user okay so in this way we can add user to a group okay now let's see how we can remove role from user how we can remove role from group okay removing is same that if you want to remove a role from a group navigate to role click on edit select the role which you want to revoke move it back now this become blank click on save. Role is removed now. This group having a group member but does not have any role now so if I refresh this role page now see user is removed group is removed because the group does not have any role that means user does not have any role see so in this way we can remove the role as well and the same way we can also remove the role from the user click on edit select the role go back role is removed. So in this way we can assign roles we can remove roles we can create user we can create roles we can create groups okay if we are creating 
a user that a user will get saved in a table which name is Sys 
under score user okay but rule which we are creating over here 
will get saved into Sys underscore user  accordance code rule okay whatever group we are creating over here will get saved into Sys sys underscore user underscore group so these are basically the three tables where users roles and groups whatever we are creating in a system getting saved okay friends so friends this is all for this video so I hope this video helps you to understand that how we can create users roles and groups and how we can assign roles to user okay friends so soon I will be posting a next video of this service not training session okay so this is all for this service not such service not training session one so if you have not subscribed my channel then please do subscribe my channel and please do not forget to click on a bell 
icon so that you can receive a notification that what all videos I am going to post in future thank you friends have a nice day bye bye